So clo introduced this sub agent feature
a few weeks ago. It was super exciting
concept. However, for people who tried
it, they often get quite negative
experience where sub agent feels slow
consume much more token and most
importantly it didn't feel like it's
contributing to the better result. And I
was among one of those people but only
recently I started learning the best
practice of using sub aents and that has
totally changed the game and make my
cloud code perform much better
consistently. That's why today I want to
share how do I think about and design
sub aent system. So firstly we got to
understand why did cloud code introduce
sub agent concept initially and if you
don't know how exactly cloud code agent
works behind the scenes it's basically a
tool called agent that has equipped with
list of different tools for read file
listing all the files edit files stuff
like that and some of tool can consume a
lot more token like read tool because
you're going to include the whole
content of file into the conversation
history and before cloud code has the
sub aent feature everything will be done
by the cloud code agent itself which
means before it start implementing It
might already use 80% of the context
window cuz those files will contain
large amount of context which will
likely trigger this compact conversation
command that will summarize the whole
conversation before it can proceed. And
as we know every time when you compact
conversation the performance just
dropped dramatically because it start
losing context about what it has done
before. That's why later they introduce
this task tool for the cloud code agent.
It allow cloud code to assign a task to
another agent and this agent will have
exact same set of tools including a read
file, search file. So you can trigger
this agent to actually scan the whole
codebase understand what are the all the
relevant files to change and then based
on that information to do the actual
implementation and the way this saving
token is because from the parent agent
perspective all steps that sub agent
take in the middle one won't be part of
the conversation history for the parent
agent it can only see that it assign
task to the sub agent and then sub agent
come back with a summary of the research
report which can be used to guide the
next best action. By doing that you
fatally turn those massive token
consumption from the read file search
file actions to something like just a
few hundred token summary but still
contain the most important information
to guide the next action. So the whole
purpose of sub agent has been around
context engineer and context
optimization but where things fail is
when people start trying to get a sub
agent not only doing the research work
but also directly doing the
implementation. For example, the first
thought I had was what if we can have
front- end dev agent to do just a front-
end implementation with special rules
and workflows as well as backend dev
agent who is specialized at backend
implementation. Then for the parent
agent, it really just orchestrate the
whole conversation and delegate task to
others. This sounds really good at
beginning but the moment if whatever sub
agent implemented is not 100% correct
and you want agent to fix it. That's
where the problem begin because for each
agent it only has very limited
information about what is going on. For
the front end dev agent it only knows
the action it take as well as the final
message it generate in that specific
task. Same for the backend dev agent.
And if you prompt cloud code agent that
there's a front end bug even though it
assigned to the front end dev again this
will just trigger a new conversation
because the front end dev agent wouldn't
know what happened before in the last
front end session and also won't have
any context about what backend dev has
done before. So each task is very
contained session. Meanwhile, for the
parent cloud code agent, it also have
very limited information because again
it won't see all the actions has been
taken for the sub agent which means it
want to know what a specific files have
been created and what did they actually
put in those files. All the parent agent
see that I assign task to front end dev
and front end dev combassing I complete
task and same thing for the back end. So
if you want to get cloud code agent to
fix the bug itself it will have very
limited information about what is
causing the issue. This probably will be
resolved later in future. We will figure
out a good way to share context across
those different agents so that each one
of them always on the same page about
what has been done. But for now, the
best practice would be consider each sub
agent almost as a researcher and think
about what kind of planning and research
steps can actually dramatically improve
your current AI coding workflow. I also
received a similar feedback from Adam
Wolf who is one of the key engineer on
the cloud code team where he says sub
aent works best when they just looking
for information and provide a small
amount of summary back to main
conversation thread. So with this one I
got this idea. What if each service
provider like Versell AI SDK, Superbase,
Tailwind, they can just have one agent
that is equipped with all the latest
knowledge about their documentations,
best practice and design and then this
agent can start looking through my
existing codebase and to figure out an
implementation plan. And this is exactly
what I tried. I start creating different
expert sub aents for each service from
chassen where it has access to special
MCP tool that can retrieve relevant
components and same design to do a
really good front-end job or Versell AI
SDK expert that is loaded with the
latest vers SDK v5 doc because they just
released this new version a couple weeks
ago or a stripe expert that is loaded
with latest stripe doc as well as tools
like context 7 so you can do complex
setup like usage based pricing very
easily out of Meanwhile, I also did some
optimization about the context sharing
across different agents. This is
something I learned from manus teams
blog on context engineer where they talk
about all the tricks and tips of how
they make manus to execute long running
tasks. There a lot of good stuff in
there but the part inspires me most is
how they use file system as ultimate
context management system. So instead of
storing all the tool results in the
conversation history directly they
receive a result to a local file which
can be retrieved later. In their case,
when the agent run a web scraping tool,
instead of including the whole content
script inside the conversation history
directly, which might take more than
10,000 token, they will just save the
script content into a local MD file,
which can be retrieved later in any
point of conversation. And this is
exactly what I designed here. Inside doc
cloud folder, there will be a task
folder that contain the context of each
feature that you want a team to
implement. Meanwhile, each sub agent can
start creating those MD file about the
specific research report and
implementation plan so that the process
will be the parent agent will always
create a context file that include all
the information about the specific
project we try to execute. And for every
sub aent before they start doing the
work, they will read this context file
first to understand the overall project
plan and where things are at now. And
after they finish they will also update
context file to indicate what are the
core steps they did and save the
research report into a MD file in the
dock. So the parent agent or all the
other agent can just read this talk
later for getting more context. And this
setup has dramatically improved the
success rate and result for my cloud
code. And this is what I want to quickly
show you today. So hopefully you get an
idea about what type of sub aent you can
create that is going to be actually
useful. But before we dive into that I
know many of you are first-time farmers.
Building product is just one part of
puzzle. You also need to learn how to
acquire users, how to price it, and how
to prove value to customers. That's why
I want to introduce you to this free
material called money-making AI agents.
It is done by Dimmitri Shapier, founder
and CEO of M Studio, which is one of
fastest growing AI stars. He shared his
whole journey and experience from
spotting the real problem that were
solving all the way to pricing and
closing deals covering all the practical
and essential workflows, tools, and
processes. It even includes specific
script about how he do demo to his
customers as well as many real world
case studies of how people are building
and launching AI products that got six
to seven figures annual recurring
revenue. And my favorite part is how to
think about pricing of your AI product
and service. Different framework of work
with enterprise versus SMB and how to
estimate the value from your client's
point of view. It has more than one hour
practical guide plus guides that you can
start using for free. You can click on
the link in the description below to get
this resource and thanks HubSpot for
bringing us this awesome material. Now
let's start building some cloud code sub
aents. So to build those sub aents the
general rules I have is that I will
include a lot of important docs directly
inside the system prop so I can have
confidence that it will follow the
latest practice and meanwhile I will
also give them random tools to retrieve
important context. In this chassis and
expert example, as I mentioned before,
there are MCP tool that specific design
for those information retrieval from
that specific package. One is this
chassis and component MCP. They allow
you to retrieve components, the example
code for each component and relevant
blocks. So it will have the four context
as well as another MCP to to retrieve
and design for chassis. This MCP is from
Twix in which is a website that is
specialized in those scene design and
this MCP will just retrieve some
welldesigned scene so that it can be
used as reference. Normally I will open
terminal to code.claw.json.
This will open your global settings and
here's one key called MCP server where I
pass in this chassen component and
chassen sync tool. So sub agents will
have access to and we can choose which
tool agent should have access to the
model the color and then you will see
this new agent created. You can add
agent if you want but what I normally do
is that I will open terminal and then do
code doc clock. So this will open your
personal settings for cloud code which
will be applied across all the purchase.
So we'll create a new agent and we can
either create a project specific agent
or personal level agent that will be
used across all the purchase. For our
example I will use a personal level and
we can generate claw. It will try to
generate title description and the
system prompt for this sub agent based
on your quick explanation. So here the
description I give is that it's a
chassen front end expert who can help
design workass front end UI relevant
chassis MCPS as mentioned before there
are special MCP tool that I used here.
So here you can see an example it
created here. Normally what I do at this
point is either pasting docs into their
system prompt or attaching special MCP
tools and rules about how to use this
MCP tool. In the final version I
designed before it has all those rules
about the process it should follow. So
the overall plan here is that you were
listing all the components, choosing the
right component and get example code to
know how exactly to use that and also
get some reference about how to
composite different UI patterns together
using the block get the relevant seams
as well as some rules about where to put
which component files and normally what
I will also do is I will firstly add a
goal here for each sub agent where I
will mention that the goal is to design
propose a detailed implementation plan
and never do the actual implementation
and once they finish just save the
design file to docloud/doc file and in
the end I will also include this output
format to instruct that the final
message output should look something
like this I've created plan as this file
please read that first before you
proceed and this message will be sent
back to the cloud code parent agent so
that everyone know that I need to look
up this file as well as list of
different rules to keep instructing that
don't actually do the implementation and
before you do any work it should look at
the context file first to get full
context and after finish your work it
should update this context file And this
also one kind of weird behavior I
observe sometimes sub agent will try to
run this cloud MCP client to call itself
my suspicious because sub agent actually
inherit cloud.md file we have so I just
add this rule here to making sure it is
not getting confused and this output
format and rules as well as the goals
are almost identical across all the sub
aent I created for example for this
versel AI SDK expert I also have just
same structure for the output format and
the roots the only difference here is I
will through more detailed documentation
about the latest versile AI SDK doc
which is something I directly grabbed
from their website. I just copy over
some kind of fundamental important page
about versile AI SDK v5 into the system
prop as well as a migration guide to
clearly spit out the difference between
4.0 and 5.0 that is also something I get
from their own doc. So this is example
of how we can set up those specialized
sub aent for each service that you're
going to use. So now let's give it a
try. Our first is set up a nextjs
project with chassian and then I will do
cd my app and claw. So this will set up
the initial project. I do in it to start
initializing the codebase and create a
base cloud code rule. And now I will
create this cloud MD file. But to make
it work better in the cloud MD, I also
want to add some special rules about the
sub aents. So firstly I want this parent
agent always keeps the project plan in
the doc/task/c
contact sessions so that we can use this
file as source of choose to maintain it
context and after it finish the work it
must update this MD file and meanwhile I
also want to give some rules about the
sub aents so that no it has this two sub
agents that should delegate and also
when we pass task to sub agent making
sure we do pass this MD file name and
after each sub agent finish the work
they need to read the documentation they
created before it execute tasks. So with
this setup, let's give a try. So our
give prompt help me build a replica of
CHBT using chassen as front end and
versile as SDKs AI service. Let's
firstly build the UI making sure we
consult sub agent and firstly it will
try to create this contact session one
MD file to document the context about
this project that we're executing. Then
it trigger this chassian agent. If I do
controlr R to open the detail, you can
see that it give a very specific task to
this chassen your expert agent including
the context file to raid as well as
specific tasks. Then the first thing
this sub agent do is that it try to read
this context file. Then it start running
the MCP tool called chassen components.
So this special MCP tool that we
connected. So if I go back to the agent,
it will continuously using those
relevant tools to retrieve information
that can help it design the UI with
right components. And for each
component, it can also get some example
code of how to use it. So in the end,
this chassen agent will finish the work
and create a doc file about this UI
design, overall layout and the plan
components to use with very detailed
structure. And based on that, the parent
agent will read this plan and start
breaking down the actual implementation.
And after a while it finish the whole
thing in just one go and also update
this context session file to indicate
what kind of things have been done and
what are the overall architecture and I
can run this application. By the way
cloud code just introduces background
session that it can keep running and
monitoring the result which is really
useful. If I open this UI, you can see
it is extremely high fidelity with all
those detail interaction considered
which looks almost identical to the
first version of CHBT and there's some
arrows which we can paste in start
fixing those errors and this is why the
new sub aent structure is so good
because all the execution will be done
by this parent agent. So it will have
full context. What's the best way to fix
the issue? Great. So now there's no
arrows and if I type in a message it
will also have nice interaction and
animation has been handled. So next we
can ask it to connect to the versel SDK.
So I ask it to let's do the vers SDK
integration and make sure consult the
sub agent. So this will trigger the
versel AI SDK implementation planner
inside this agent again it will firstly
try to read this context file. Then it
will look through the whole code base to
see what are the best way to implement
this and after finish it will create
this talk about the implementation plan
for the verselia SDK and also update
this contact session MD file to document
what has been done and then this parent
agent read the whole implementation plan
and come up with a specific
implementation steps and cool again
after finish remarkings are completed
and continuously update this context
file. So now we get this application
running. If I just type in hi I'm Jason
it have this agent actually connect to
the large link port bottle and return me
the result in just one shot which is
amazing part. So here's quick example of
what I learned as best practice for
using sub agents. If you want to learn
more in a bit club I pasting all the
prompted process of creating those sub
aents that I just show you. Meanwhile,
we have this cloud code template that we
are curating which include a list of
hooks, commands, and agents that we
actually tested and really useful in
production environment. So, if you're
interested, you can click on the link
below to join AI builder club. We also
have a weekly session to talk through
the best practice we learn every week. I
hope you enjoy this video. Thank you and
I see you next